Network Observability 1.6 release notes (#75821)
openshift/openshift-docs: observability/network_observability/network-observability-operator-release-notes.adoc

For an overview of the Network Observability Operator, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/network-observability-overview.adoc#dependency-network-observability[About Network Observability Operator].

[id="network-observability-operator-release-notes-1-6"]
== Network Observability Operator 1.6.0
The following advisory is available for the Network Observability Operator 1.6.0:
// note to self: update errata live ID
* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2024:0853[Network Observability Operator 1.6.0]

[id="network-observability-operator-1.6.0-features-enhancements"]
=== New features and enhancements

[id="network-observability-custom-metrics-1.6"]
==== Custom metrics API
You can create custom metrics out of the flowlogs data using the `FlowMetrics` API. Flowlogs data can be used with Prometheus labels to customize cluster information on your dashboards. For more information, see 

[id="network-observability-eBPF-performance-enhancements-1.6"]
==== eBPF performance enhancements

> *NetObserv / Health* dashboard integration with eBPF metrics allows you to view alerts if the Network Observability eBPF agent hashmap table is full, and the eBPF agent processes flows with degraded performance, or when the capacity limiter is triggered. 

Reviewer: Is it an `or` before `the eBPF agent processes flows with degraded performance`?

Author: It isn't. Hrm. Its like there's two cases where you see this eBPF alert:
1. When the eBPF agent hashmap table is full, which causes the eBPF agent to process flows with degraded performance.
2. When the capacity limiter is triggered. 

I think I need to kinda tweak this. I can see how the conjunctions are a little confusing here.

Reviewer: sounds good

> *NetObserv / Health* dashboard integration with eBPF metrics allows you to view alerts in two cases: when the Network Observability eBPF agent hashmap table is full, which cases the eBPF agent processes flows with degraded performance, or when the capacity limiter is triggered. 

Reviewer: missing `u` in causes

Author: 🤦‍♀️ ty

[id="network-observability-no-show-duplicates-1.6"]
==== Duplicates no longer shown
Previously, duplicated flows were stored as individual flows, and flagged as duplicate if there were multiple of the same kind of flows. You could choose to show the duplicated flows using 
the *Duplicate flows* Query Option. Now instead of having multiple, individual flows, there is one flow with a list of matching *Interfaces* and *Interface directions*. Since the duplicated flows are merged in a list to a single flow data, Loki storage demand decreases significantly. 

[NOTE]
===
With this update, the *Interface* and *Interface Direction* fields in the *Network Traffic* table are renamed to *Interfaces* and *Interface Directions*, so any saved queries using these fields need to be updated. 
===

[id="network-observability-lokiless-enhancements-1.6"]
==== Enhanced use of Network Observability Operator without Loki

> You can now do more than ever with the Network Observability Operator without relying on Loki for storage. For more information, see 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now do more than ever with the Network Observability Operator without relying on Loki for storage. For more information, see <missing link here?>
```

Reviewer 2: no worries, later I figured that'd be the case :)

For an overview of the Network Observability Operator, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/network-observability-overview.adoc#dependency-network-observability[About Network Observability Operator].

[id="network-observability-operator-release-notes-1-6"]
== Network Observability Operator 1.6.0
The following advisory is available for the Network Observability Operator 1.6.0:
// note to self: update errata live ID
* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2024:0853[Network Observability Operator 1.6.0]

[id="network-observability-operator-1.6.0-features-enhancements"]
=== New features and enhancements

[id="network-observability-custom-metrics-1.6"]
==== Custom metrics API
You can create custom metrics out of the flowlogs data using the `FlowMetrics` API. Flowlogs data can be used with Prometheus labels to customize cluster information on your dashboards. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/metrics-alerts-dashboards.adoc#network-observability-custom-metrics_metrics-dashboards-alerts[Custom metrics] and <FLOW_METRICS_API_REF_LINK_HERE>

[id="network-observability-eBPF-performance-enhancements-1.6"]

> ==== eBPF performance enhancements

Reviewer 3: I think we need first to say that we improved the performances, both in terms of CPU and memory, of the agent. And then as a side thing that we also introduced new health metrics for the agent, visible in the health dashboard, as well as this alert on dropped flows.

Author: Thank you!

*NetObserv / Health* dashboard integration with eBPF metrics allows you to view alerts in two causes: when the Network Observability eBPF agent hashmap table is full, which cases the eBPF agent processes flows with degraded performance, or when the capacity limiter is triggered. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/network-observability-operator-monitoring.adoc#network-observability-netobserv-dashboard-ebpf-agent-alerts_network_observability[Using the eBPF agent alert]. 

[id="network-observability-cli-1.6"]

> ==== Network Observability CLI

Reviewer 3: Mention that it is tech preview?

Author: OH yes, I need to create a TP section in our release notes

[id="network-observability-no-show-duplicates-1.6"]
==== Duplicates no longer shown
Previously, duplicated flows were stored as individual flows, and flagged as duplicate if there were multiple of the same kind of flows. You could choose to show the duplicated flows using 
the *Duplicate flows* Query Option. Now instead of having multiple, individual flows, there is one flow with a list of matching *Interfaces* and *Interface directions*. Since the duplicated flows are merged in a list to a single flow data, Loki storage demand decreases significantly. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc#network-observability-quickfilternw-observe-network-traffic[Quick filters].

[NOTE]
===
With this update, the *Interface* and *Interface Direction* fields in the *Network Traffic* table are renamed to *Interfaces* and *Interface Directions*, so any saved queries usi ng these fields need to be updated. 
===

[id="network-observability-lokiless-enhancements-1.6"]

> ==== Enhanced use of Network Observability Operator without Loki

Reviewer 3: maybe this one should go first , as we want to emphasize this new mode

You can now do more than ever with the Network Observability Operator without relying on Loki for storage. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/installing-operators.adoc#network-observability-without-loki_network_observability[Network Observability without Loki].

[id="network-observability-ebpf-collection-filtering-1.6"]
==== eBPF collection rule-based filtering

> You can use rule-based filtering to control the volume of packets cached in the eBPF flow table. When this option is enabled, the* Netobserv / Health* dashboard for eBPF agent statistics has the *Filtered flows rate* view as well as additional query options in *Observe* -> *Metrics*. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc#network-observability-ebpf-flow-rule-filter_nw-observe-network-traffic[eBPF flow rule filter].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use rule-based filtering to reduce the volume of created flows. When this option is enabled, the *Netobserv / Health* dashboard for eBPF agent statistics has the *Filtered flows rate* view. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc#network-observability-ebpf-flow-rule-filter_nw-observe-network-traffic[eBPF flow rule filter].
```

I would not mention "cached in the eBPF table" here, users may not really understand that, but rather would tell about the consequences (reducing number of flows). Also not sure what is "as well as additional query options in *Observe* -> *Metrics*" (we don't directly change anything from that page; the intent might be to tell that a new metric is accessible from there, but that's said implicitely already when saying that the dashboard has a new chart for filtered flows

[id="network-observability-eBPF-performance-enhancements-1.6"]
==== eBPF performance enhancements
With this release, you can experience improved the performances of the eBPF agent, both in terms of CPU and memory. Additionally, the *NetObserv / Health* dashboard integration with eBPF metrics allows you to view alerts in two causes: when the Network Observability eBPF agent hashmap table is full, which cases the eBPF agent processes flows with degraded performance, or when the capacity limiter is triggered. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/network-observability-operator-monitoring.adoc#network-observability-netobserv-dashboard-ebpf-agent-alerts_network_observability[Using the eBPF agent alert]. 

[id="network-observability-no-show-duplicates-1.6"]

> ==== Duplicates no longer shown

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
==== Deduper enablement
```

Duplicates is a technical debt; not a feature. We need to emphasize that this is an optimisation !

Author: Ok I am going to make the eBPF performance section a bullet list, so I can also add the TCX hooks there as well.

the *Duplicate flows* Query Option. Now instead of having multiple, individual flows, there is one flow with a list of matching *Interfaces* and *Interface directions*. Since the duplicated flows are merged in a list to a single flow data, Loki storage demand decreases significantly. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc#network-observability-quickfilternw-observe-network-traffic[Quick filters].

[NOTE]
===
With this update, the *Interface* and *Interface Direction* fields in the *Network Traffic* table are renamed to *Interfaces* and *Interface Directions*, so any saved queries usi ng these fields need to be updated. 
===

[id="network-observability-ebpf-collection-filtering-1.6"]
==== eBPF collection rule-based filtering
You can use rule-based filtering to reduce the volume of created flows. When this option is enabled, the *Netobserv / Health* dashboard for eBPF agent statistics has the *Filtered flows rate* view. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc#network-observability-ebpf-flow-rule-filter_nw-observe-network-traffic[eBPF flow rule filter].

> 

Reviewer 3: I think something else is worth mentioning: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1426 (I just added a release note text in it, if you want to check). Despite it's part of the Metrics API feature (more as a side task), IMO it should be mentioned apart because it offers new possibilities not necessarily correlated with the metrics API.

Author: Okay I added this release note text to the **eBPF collection rule-based filtering** release note.

Author: Now this:
> With this feature, you can add custom labels for any subnet that you would want to identify in your flows and metrics. It can also be used to better identify traffic from or to IPs that are external to the cluster. You can use rule-based filtering to reduce the volume of created flows. When this option is enabled, the *Netobserv / Health* dashboard for eBPF agent statistics has the *Filtered flows rate* view.

Author: Sorry the more I reflect on this comment the more I'm fairly certain you didn't mean for me to add it to the eBPF rule-based filtering note...since its part of the Custom Metrics API. I mention it in that note line 29.

Reviewer 3: Yes I meant to mention it as an item of its own, but I think it's also good as you put it.

[id="network-observability-lokiless-enhancements-1.6"]
==== Enhanced use of Network Observability Operator without Loki
You can now do more than ever with the Network Observability Operator using Prometheus metrics and relying less on Loki for storage. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/installing-operators.adoc#network-observability-without-loki_network_observability[Network Observability without Loki].

[id="network-observability-custom-metrics-1.6"]
==== Custom metrics API
You can create custom metrics out of flowlogs data by using the `FlowMetrics` API. Flowlogs data can be used with Prometheus labels to customize cluster information on your dashboards. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/metrics-alerts-dashboards.adoc#network-observability-custom-metrics_metrics-dashboards-alerts[Custom metrics] and <FLOW_METRICS_API_REF_LINK_HERE>

[id="network-observability-eBPF-performance-enhancements-1.6"]
==== eBPF performance enhancements
With the following updates, you can experience improved performances of the eBPF agent, both in terms of CPU and memory: 

* The eBPF agent now uses TCX webhooks instead of TC.

> * The *NetObserv / Health* dashboard integration with eBPF metrics allows you to view alerts in two causes: when the Network Observability eBPF agent hashmap table is full, which cases the eBPF agent processes flows with degraded performance, or when the capacity limiter is triggered. 

Reviewer: letter `u` is still missing is causes

Author: Lol sorry, there were two cases in this sentences and I changed the wrong one 🤦‍♀️

For an overview of the Network Observability Operator, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/network-observability-overview.adoc#dependency-network-observability[About Network Observability Operator].

> [id="network-observability-operator-release-notes-1-6"]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
[id="network-observability-operator-release-notes-1-6_{context}"]
```
Don't know if you want to add the context tag to your headings or not; OCP is doing it, but I haven't decided for MicroShift, either. Food for thought.

Author: Ugh, I know. I saw that come in team-ocp-docs and I was like man, I _guess_ I'll add it but I haven't done it yet because I already had all these titles at the time that memo came through. Kinda bad timing with OCP release.

== Network Observability Operator 1.6.0
The following advisory is available for the Network Observability Operator 1.6.0:
// note to self: update errata live ID
* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2024:0853[Network Observability Operator 1.6.0]

[id="network-observability-operator-1.6.0-features-enhancements"]
=== New features and enhancements

[id="network-observability-lokiless-enhancements-1.6"]
==== Enhanced use of Network Observability Operator without Loki

> You can now do more than ever with the Network Observability Operator by using Prometheus metrics and relying less on Loki for storage. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/installing-operators.adoc#network-observability-without-loki_network_observability[Network Observability without Loki].

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can now use Prometheus metrics and rely less on Loki for storage with the Network Observability Operator. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/installing-operators.adoc#network-observability-without-loki_network_observability[Network Observability without Loki].
```
for minimalism and directness

Author: Thanks. I sometimes struggle with tending to be too "markety" in release notes.

[id="network-observability-custom-metrics-1.6"]
==== Custom metrics API

> You can create custom metrics out of flowlogs data by using the `FlowMetrics` API. Flowlogs data can be used with Prometheus labels to customize cluster information on your dashboards. You can add custom labels for any subnet that you would want to identify in your flows and metrics. This enhancement can also be used to better identify traffic from or to IPs that are external to the cluster. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/metrics-alerts-dashboards.adoc#network-observability-custom-metrics_metrics-dashboards-alerts[Custom metrics] and <FLOW_METRICS_API_REF_LINK_HERE>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can create custom metrics out of flowlogs data by using the `FlowMetrics` API. Flowlogs data can be used with Prometheus labels to customize cluster information on your dashboards. You can add custom labels for any subnet that you want to identify in your flows and metrics. This enhancement can also be used to more easily identify traffic from or to IPs that are external to the cluster. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/metrics-alerts-dashboards.adoc#network-observability-custom-metrics_metrics-dashboards-alerts[Custom metrics] and <FLOW_METRICS_API_REF_LINK_HERE>
```
I don't know what "better" means. Is there something specific that was added to the log data that should be called out? Or can we combine the labels and logs for this purpose?

Reviewer 3: If we need more details: this allows to more easily identify external traffic, by using the new `SrcSubnetLabel` and `DstSubnetLabel` (which exist in flow logs and in metrics), which are empty in case of external traffic. idk if we want to call out that somehow or if that's too much details in the release note. This is mentioned in the CRD doc and in the documented sample metrics.

Author: The extra details only add a sentence and a phrase. Not bad and like you said, it kinda primes the sample metrics that are documented. I will add it.

[id="network-observability-eBPF-performance-enhancements-1.6"]
==== eBPF performance enhancements

> With the following updates, you can experience improved performances of the eBPF agent, both in terms of CPU and memory: 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Enjoy improved CPU and memory performance of the eBPF agent in terms of CPU and memory with the following updates: 
```

> * The eBPF agent now uses TCX webhooks instead of TC.

Reviewer: yup verified this and had moved the docs ticket to verified status too

> * The *NetObserv / Health* dashboard integration with eBPF metrics allows you to view alerts in two cases: when the Network Observability eBPF agent hashmap table is full, which causes the eBPF agent processes flows with degraded performance, or when the capacity limiter is triggered. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Now see alerts using the *NetObserv / Health* dashboard integration with eBPF metrics in the following two cases: 

** When the Network Observability eBPF agent hashmap table is full, which causes the eBPF agent processes flows with degraded performance.
** When the capacity limiter is triggered. 
```

Reviewer 3: In fact there's 2 different things here:
- the *NetObserv / Health* dashboard has a new section showing eBPF metrics
- based on the new eBPF metrics, an alert is created to notify when the eBPF agent is dropping flows.

Perhaps I wouldn't go in the details of what could cause the alert here? (just saying "when the agent is dropping flows" should be sufficient for the release note?

> * Duplicated flows are now merged into a list, which is tied to a single flow data, so Loki storage demand decreases significantly. Previously, duplicated flows were stored as individual flows, and flagged as duplicate if there were multiple of the same kind of flows. You could choose to show the duplicated flows using the *Duplicate flows* Query Option. Now instead of having multiple, individual flows, there is one flow with a list of matching *Interfaces* and *Interface directions*.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Loki storage demand decreases significantly now that duplicated flows are merged into a list, which is tied to a single flow data. Now instead of having multiple, individual flows, there is one flow with a list of matching *Interfaces* and *Interface Directions*. Previously, duplicated flows were stored as individual flows and flagged as duplicates if there was more than one of the same kind of flow. You could choose to show the duplicated flows using the *Duplicate flows* Query Option. 
```
A little org and simplification for your consideration.

Reviewer 3: Borrowing your suggestion and trying to simplify more :-) :

```suggestion
* Loki storage demand decreases significantly now that per-agent duplicated flows are merged. Now instead of having multiple, individual duplicated flows per network interface, there is one de-duplicated flow with a list of related network interfaces.
```
I'm not sure we need to call out the previous "Show duplicates" query option, or if it's clear enough that this was removed because there's no duplicates anymore. I'd say it's a minor detail.

(also: not sure if "de-duplicated" is correct for the doc, or if it's with or without dash)

Author: I *think* de-duplicate is OK. IBMSG says "In some words in which identical letters would be next to each other (for example, anti-intellectual, co-opt, de-emphasize)".

Author: I landed on this:
Loki storage demand decreases significantly now that duplicated flows are merged into a list, which is tied to a single flow data. Now, instead of having multiple, individual duplicated flows per network interface, there is one de-duplicated flow with a list of related network interfaces.

Reviewer 3: It doesn't look technically correct to say "now that duplicated flows are merged into a list, which is tied to a single flow data"
It's actually the *network interfaces* of the duplicates that are merged, as a list of interfaces, into a single de-duplicated flow. Which is correctly said in the second sentence. If just saying "now that duplicated flows are merged" doesn't look good because you expect a "merged into what?", perhaps we can say differently: "now that  duplicated flows are removed", and the second sentence brings the precisions about the merge of the network interfaces

Author: Okay, I updated to say:
Loki storage demand decreases significantly **now that duplicated flows are removed**. Instead of having multiple, individual duplicated flows per network interface, there is one de-duplicated flow with a list of related network interfaces.

> [NOTE]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  [IMPORTANT]
```
Sounds like not updating the query fields breaks something, so I wonder if this should be an important admonition?

Author: Agree.

> ===

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
====
```

> With the duplicated flows update, the *Interface* and *Interface Direction* fields in the *Network Traffic* table are renamed to *Interfaces* and *Interface Directions*, so any saved queries usi ng these fields need to be updated. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The duplicated flows update renames the *Interface* and *Interface Direction* fields in the *Network Traffic* table to *Interfaces* and *Interface Directions*. Update any saved queries that use these fields to... 
```
I don't know what the user does with these queries, but you could add that there.

Reviewer 3: basically they need to add a "s" to the filter names `interface` => `interfaces` and `ifdirection` => `ifdirections`.
An example using a configured quick filter, if it was previously:
```yaml
    - filter:
        interface: genev_sys_6081
      name: genev
```

then it must be changed to (adding "s") :
```yaml
    - filter:
        interfaces: genev_sys_6081
      name: genev
```

Author: I updated this admonition to say the following:
[IMPORTANT]
===
With the duplicated flows update, the *Interface* and *Interface Direction* fields in the *Network Traffic* table are renamed to *Interfaces* and *Interface Directions*, so any bookmarked *Quick filter* queries using these fields need to be updated to `interfaces` and `ifdirections`. 
===

> ===

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
====
```

> For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/network-observability-operator-monitoring.adoc#network-observability-netobserv-dashboard-ebpf-agent-alerts_network_observability[Using the eBPF agent alert]. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/network-observability-operator-monitoring.adoc#network-observability-netobserv-dashboard-ebpf-agent-alerts_network_observability[Using the eBPF agent alert] and xref:../../observability/network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc#network-observability-quickfilternw-observe-network-traffic[Quick filters]
```

> and see xref:../../observability/network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc#network-observability-quickfilternw-observe-network-traffic[Quick filters].

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

[id="network-observability-ebpf-collection-filtering-1.6"]
==== eBPF collection rule-based filtering
You can use rule-based filtering to reduce the volume of created flows. When this option is enabled, the *Netobserv / Health* dashboard for eBPF agent statistics has the *Filtered flows rate* view. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc#network-observability-ebpf-flow-rule-filter_nw-observe-network-traffic[eBPF flow rule filter].

[id="network-observability-technology-preview-1.6"]

> === Technology preview features

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
=== Technology Preview features
```

> Some features in this release are currently in Technology Preview. These experimental features are not intended for production use. Note the following scope of support on the Red Hat Customer Portal for these features:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Some features in this release are currently in Technology Preview. Technology Preview features are not intended for production use. Note the following scope of support on the Red Hat Customer Portal for these features:
```
I don't think we use "experimental" for these.

Author: I copied this text directly from the main OCP release notes/TP: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/release_notes/ocp-4-15-release-notes.html#ocp-4-15-technology-preview-tables

link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview[Technology Preview Features Support Scope]

[id="network-observability-cli-1.6"]
==== Network Observability CLI

> The Network Observability CLI allows you to debug and troubleshoot network traffic issues without needing to install the Network Observability Operator. You can capture and visualize flow and packet data in real-time with no persistent storage requirement during the capture. For more information, see 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can debug and troubleshoot network traffic issues without needing to install the Network Observability Operator by using the Network Observability CLI. Capture and visualize flow and packet data in real-time with no persistent storage requirement during the capture. For more information, see 
```

// commenting until CLI feature doc is merged 
// xref:../../observability/network_observability/netobserv_cli/netobserv-cli-install.adoc#network-observability-netoberv-cli-about_netobserv-cli-install[Network Observability CLI]

[id="network-observability-operator-1.6.0-bug-fixes"]
=== Bug fixes

> * Previously, a dead link to the OpenShift documentation was displayed in the OLM form for `FlowMetrics` API creation. Now the link has been updated to point to a valid page. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1607[*NETOBSERV-1607*])

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Previously, a dead link to the {OCP} documentation was displayed in the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) form for `FlowMetrics` API creation. Now the link has been updated to point to a valid page. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1607[*NETOBSERV-1607*])
```

> * Previously, the Operator description in Operator Hub was displaying a broken link to the documentation. With this fix, this link is restored. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1544[*NETOBSERV-1544*])

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Network Observability Operator description in Operator Hub was displaying a broken link to the documentation. With this fix, this link is restored. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1544[*NETOBSERV-1544*])
```

> * Previously, if Loki was disabled and the Loki `Mode` was set to `LokiStack`, or if Loki manual TLS configuration was configured, the Operator still tried to read the Loki CA certificates. With this fix, when Loki is disabled, the Loki certificates are not read, even if there are settings in the Loki configuration. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1647[*NETOBSERV-1647*])

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Previously, if Loki was disabled and the Loki `Mode` was set to `LokiStack`, or if Loki manual TLS configuration was configured, the Network Observability Operator still tried to read the Loki CA certificates. With this fix, when Loki is disabled, the Loki certificates are not read, even if there are settings in the Loki configuration. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1647[*NETOBSERV-1647*])
```
Is there an attribute for the NOO and abbreviation? Got it a few times here.

Author: I don't have an attribute yet. Its on my continuous improvement docket.

> * Previously, the must-gather plugin for the Network Observability Operator was only working on `amd64` architectures and failing on all others because the plugin was using amd64 for `oc` binary. Now, the Network Observability Operator must-gather plugin collects logs on any architecture platform. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1618[*NETOBSERV-1618*])

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Previously, the `oc` `must-gather` plugin for the Network Observability Operator was only working on `amd64` architectures and failing on all others because the plugin was using on the `amd64` architecture for the `oc` binary. Now, the Network Observability Operator must-gather plugin collects logs on any architecture platform. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1618[*NETOBSERV-1618*])
```
You can use the first-time `oc` admonition for the first one if you use the common attributes file.

> * Previously, when filtering on IP addresses using `not equal to`, the Operator would return a request error.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Previously, when filtering on IP addresses using `not equal to`, the Network Observability Operator would return a request error.
```

> Now, the IP filtering works in both `equal` and `not equal to` cases for IPs addresses and ranges. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1630[*NETOBSERV-1630*])

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Now, the IP filtering works in both `equal` and `not equal to` cases for IP addresses and ranges. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1630[*NETOBSERV-1630*])
```

* Previously, when a user was not an admin, the error messages were not consistent with the selected tab of the *Network Traffic* view in the web console. Now, the `user not admin` error displays on any tab with improved display.(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1621[*NETOBSERV-1621*])

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

[id="network-observability-operator-1.6.0-known-issues"]
=== Known issues

> * When the eBPF agent `PacketDrop` feature is enabled, and sampling is configured greater than 1, reported dropped bytes and packet ignore the sampling configuration. While this is done on purpose to not miss any drop, a side effect is that the reported proportion of drops versus non-drops becomes biased. At very high sampling rate, such as 1:1000, it's likely that almost all the traffic appears to be dropped, when looked from the console plugin. But this is only a bias. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1676[*NETOBSERV-1676*])

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* When the eBPF agent `PacketDrop` feature is enabled, and sampling is configured to greater than 1, reported dropped bytes and packet ignore the sampling configuration. While this is done on purpose to not miss any drop, a side effect is that the reported proportion of drops versus non-drops becomes biased. At very high sampling rate, such as 1:1000, it is likely that almost all the traffic appears to be dropped when looked at from the console plugin. But this is only a bias. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1676[*NETOBSERV-1676*])
```
* When the eBPF agent `PacketDrop` feature is enabled, and sampling is configured to greater than 1, reported dropped bytes and packet ignore the sampling configuration. 

I can't figure out what this sentence means. Does it mean that all dropped bytes and dropped packets are reported if the sampling configuration is set to greater than 1?

Reviewer 3: yes, that's it.

Author: I updated to this: 
When the eBPF agent `PacketDrop` feature is enabled, and sampling is configured to a value greater than `1`, reported dropped bytes and dropped packets ignore the sampling configuration. While this is done on purpose to not miss any drops, a side effect is that the reported proportion of drops versus non-drops becomes biased. For example, at a very high sampling rate, such as `1:1000`, it is likely that almost all the traffic appears to be dropped when observed from the console plugin.

> * In the "Manage panels" dialog in the Overview tab, filtering on "total", "bar", "donut", or "line" doesn't show any result. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1540[*NETOBSERV-1540*])

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* In the "Manage panels" dialog in the Overview tab, filtering on "total", "bar", "donut", or "line" doesn't show any result. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1540[*NETOBSERV-1540*])
```
Wonder if the quotes are supposed to be bold because they are GUI interface references?

Author: Yes I think so. I bolded them.

> * When Loki is disabled, the *Topology* view in the OpenShift web console always shows the *Cluster* and *Zone* aggregation options in the slider beside the network topology diagram, even when the related features are not enabled. There is no specific workaround, besides ignoring these slider options. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1705[*NETOBSERV-1705*])
> * When Loki is disabled, and the OpenShift web console first loads, it might display an error: `Request failed with status code 400 Loki is disabled`. As a workaround, you can continue switching content on the *Network Traffic* page, such as clicking between the *Topology* and the *Overview* tabs. The the error should disappear. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1706[*NETOBSERV-1706*])

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* When Loki is disabled, the *Topology* view in the OpenShift web console always shows the *Cluster* and *Zone* aggregation options in the slider beside the network topology diagram, even when the related features are not enabled. There is no specific workaround, besides ignoring these slider options. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1705[*NETOBSERV-1705*])
* When Loki is disabled, and the OpenShift web console first loads, it might display an error: `Request failed with status code 400 Loki is disabled`. As a workaround, you can continue switching content on the *Network Traffic* page, such as clicking between the *Topology* and the *Overview* tabs. The error should disappear. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1706[*NETOBSERV-1706*])
```

For an overview of the Network Observability Operator, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/network-observability-overview.adoc#dependency-network-observability[About Network Observability Operator].

[id="network-observability-operator-release-notes-1-6_{context}"]
== Network Observability Operator 1.6.0
The following advisory is available for the Network Observability Operator 1.6.0:

> * link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2024:3868[Network Observability Operator 1.6.0]

Reviewer 6: Link doesn't work. Should we still be merging this?

Author: Yeah its only merging to a staged feature branch until GA which is Monday.

Author: Then errata links will work 🤞

[id="network-observability-operator-1.6.0-features-enhancements_{context}"]
=== New features and enhancements

[id="network-observability-lokiless-enhancements-1.6_{context}"]
==== Enhanced use of Network Observability Operator without Loki
You can now use Prometheus metrics and rely less on Loki for storage when using the Network Observability Operator. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/installing-operators.adoc#network-observability-without-loki_network_observability[Network Observability without Loki].

[id="network-observability-custom-metrics-1.6_{context}"]

> ==== Custom metrics API

Reviewer 6: <FLOW_METRICS_API_REF_LINK_HERE> is appearing in the preview.

Author: 🤦‍♀️

[id="network-observability-eBPF-performance-enhancements-1.6_{context}"]
==== eBPF performance enhancements
Experience improved performances of the eBPF agent, in terms of CPU and memory, with the following updates: 

* The eBPF agent now uses TCX webhooks instead of TC.
* The *NetObserv / Health* dashboard has a new section that shows eBPF metrics.
** Based on the new eBPF metrics, an alert notifies you when the eBPF agent is dropping flows.
* Loki storage demand decreases significantly now that duplicated flows are removed. Instead of having multiple, individual duplicated flows per network interface, there is one de-duplicated flow with a list of related network interfaces.

[IMPORTANT]
====
With the duplicated flows update, the *Interface* and *Interface Direction* fields in the *Network Traffic* table are renamed to *Interfaces* and *Interface Directions*, so any bookmarked *Quick filter* queries using these fields need to be updated to `interfaces` and `ifdirections`. 
====

> For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/network-observability-operator-monitoring.adoc#network-observability-netobserv-dashboard-ebpf-agent-alerts_network_observability[Using the eBPF agent alert]. 

Reviewer 6: Removed period here: 

```suggestion
For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/network-observability-operator-monitoring.adoc#network-observability-netobserv-dashboard-ebpf-agent-alerts_network_observability[Using the eBPF agent alert]
```

and [Quick filters] actually links to Using the eBPF agent alert. Is that intended?

Author: For me, it goes to Filtering the network traffic, which is what I expect, since Quick filters is a header under that.

and xref:../../observability/network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc#network-observability-quickfilternw-observe-network-traffic[Quick filters].

[id="network-observability-ebpf-collection-filtering-1.6_{context}"]
==== eBPF collection rule-based filtering
You can use rule-based filtering to reduce the volume of created flows. When this option is enabled, the *Netobserv / Health* dashboard for eBPF agent statistics has the *Filtered flows rate* view. For more information, see xref:../../observability/network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc#network-observability-ebpf-flow-rule-filter_nw-observe-network-traffic[eBPF flow rule filter].

[id="network-observability-technology-preview-1.6_{context}"]
=== Technology Preview features
Some features in this release are currently in Technology Preview. These experimental features are not intended for production use. Note the following scope of support on the Red Hat Customer Portal for these features:

link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview[Technology Preview Features Support Scope]

[id="network-observability-cli-1.6_{context}"]
==== Network Observability CLI

> You can debug and troubleshoot network traffic issues without needing to install the Network Observability Operator by using the Network Observability CLI. Capture and visualize flow and packet data in real-time with no persistent storage requirement during the capture. For more information, see xref:../../../observability/network_observability/netobserv_cli/netobserv-cli-install.adoc#network-observability-netoberv-cli-about_netobserv-cli-install[Network Observability CLI] and link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHEA-2024:3869[Network Observability CLI 1.6.0]

Reviewer 6: Neither link works

Author: Errata link not gonna work. CLI link - argh. Let me try something else.

Author: Got that CLI link to work 😓

[id="network-observability-operator-1.6.0-bug-fixes_{context}"]
=== Bug fixes

> * Previously, a dead link to the {OCP} documentation was displayed in the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) form for the `FlowMetrics` API creation. Now the link has been updated to point to a valid page. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1607[*NETOBSERV-1607*])

Reviewer 6: {OCP} doesn't render

> * Previously, the Network Observability Operator description in Operator Hub displayed a broken link to the documentation. With this fix, this link is restored. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1544[*NETOBSERV-1544*])

Reviewer 6: the Operator Hub?

```suggestion
* Previously, the Network Observability Operator description in the Operator Hub displayed a broken link to the documentation. With this fix, this link is restored. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1544[*NETOBSERV-1544*])
```

* In the *Manage panels* pop-up window in the *Overview* tab, filtering on *total*, *bar*, *donut*, or *line* does not show any result. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1540[*NETOBSERV-1540*])
* The SR-IOV secondary interface is not detected if the interface was created first and then the eBPF agent was deployed. It is only detected if the agent was deployed first and then the SR-IOV interface is created. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1697[*NETOBSERV-1697*])
* When Loki is disabled, the *Topology* view in the OpenShift web console always shows the *Cluster* and *Zone* aggregation options in the slider beside the network topology diagram, even when the related features are not enabled. There is no specific workaround, besides ignoring these slider options. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1705[*NETOBSERV-1705*])

> * When Loki is disabled, and the OpenShift web console first loads, it might display an error: `Request failed with status code 400 Loki is disabled`. As a workaround, you can continue switching content on the *Network Traffic* page, such as clicking between the *Topology* and the *Overview* tabs. The the error should disappear. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1706[*NETOBSERV-1706*])

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* When Loki is disabled, and the OpenShift web console first loads, it might display an error: `Request failed with status code 400 Loki is disabled`. As a workaround, you can continue switching content on the *Network Traffic* page, such as clicking between the *Topology* and the *Overview* tabs. The error should disappear. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1706[*NETOBSERV-1706*])
```

* Previously, the Operator bundle did not display some of the supported features by CSV annotations as expected, such as `features.operators.openshift.io/...`
With this fix, these annotations are set in the CSV as expected. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1305[*NETOBSERV-1305*])
* Previously, the `FlowCollector` status sometimes oscillated between `DeploymentInProgress` and `Ready` states during reconciliation.

> With this fix, the status only becomes `Ready` when all the underlying components are fully ready.(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1293[*NETOBSERV-1293*])

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
With this fix, the status only becomes `Ready` when all of the underlying components are fully ready. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NETOBSERV-1293[*NETOBSERV-1293*])
```

[id="network-observability-enhanced-configuration-and-ui-1.4"]
==== Notable enhancements

> The 1.4 release of the Network Observability Operator adds improvements and new capabilities to the {product-title} web console plugin and fall configuration.

Reviewer 3: this change was not intentional i guess?

[id="network-observability-enhanced-configuration-and-ui-1.4"]
==== Notable enhancements

> The 1.4 release of the Network Observability Operator adds improvements and new capabilities to the {product-title} web console plugin and fall configuration.

Reviewer 6: Confused: ". . . and fall configuration." ?
